## Learning Primer Bias for DNA Polymerase and Reverse Transcriptase
The enzymes DNA Polymerase (DNAPol) and Reverse Transcriptase (RT) are among the most commonly used molecular biology reagents used on a daily basis worldwide. The binding and initiation efficiency of these two enzymes is greatly affected by the nucleotide composition and ordering of DNA and RNA basepairs that form the enzymes' primers. Even though a significant increase in enzyme performance could be had by rational primer design incorporating efficiency information, their efficiencies have never been experimentally measured.

RT-qSeq is a ***in vitro*** method that was developed with the intention of enabling the amplification of mRNA-isoform-distinguishing cDNA amplicons. Since most mRNA isoforms exist in very low copy numbers in a cell, sensitivity is critical to the success of the RT-qSeq technique. Sensitivity, in this context, is defined as the create cDNA amplicons for target mRNA isoforms that are present in a cell. And this sensitivity is highly dependent on the efficiency of the DNAPol and RT enzymes involved. So for the purpose of maximizing the power of the RT-qSeq is is necessary to create primers that enable the enzymes to operate at maximum efficiency/sensitivity.

Herein are included specifications for DNA and hybrid RNA/DNA molecules that can be readily synthesized commercially to enable such experiments. Also included is software that can process and analyze the raw DNA sequencing data and calculate the priming efficiencies of all possible primers for both enzymes.
